---
title: "CENG2400 Embedded System Design - CUHK Course Review"
date: 2020-12-21T17:11:41+08:00
thumbnail: ""
static_page: false
draft: false
---

Term Taken: 2020 Fall

*Remote Teaching due to COVID19*

Instructor: Prof. Xu Qiang

# Grading Scheme
* Written Homework (10%)
* Lab (15%)
* In-class exercises and quizzes (20%)
* Project (25%)
* Final exam (30%)

# Topics Covered
* GPIO.
* ARM Processor.
* Serial Communications: UART, SPI, I2C.
* Analog Interfacing.
* Concurrency: Interrupt vs. Polling, Scheduling.
* Direct Memory Access.
* Motor and Control Systems.

# Review
This was a required course for CE majors and an elective course for CS majors. As far as I know, very little CS students register CE courses because they dislike hardware. However, I actually enjoyed this course quite a bit and felt like it didn't require that much hardware knowledge.

<br />

The focus of this course was gaining us extensive hands-on experience in building embedded system projects. The lectures covered the concepts and principles of some embedded system topics, but during the labs, we had to wrote actual C code to implement or utilize the materials taught in the lectures.

<br />

For all the labs, we worked on a Tiva C evaluation board and some common electronic components such as LCD display and num pad. Towards the end of the semester, a project kit was given to us and we had to use the knowledge we learned to put together an obstacle-avoiding robot car. The project was pretty simple because most of the complicated code was already completed by the technician. All we had to do was filling in the emptied-out C functions and perform some fine-tuning. In the last lab, a demo was hosted to determine the final score of the project.

<br />

There were couple written homework and quizzes which tested us on some very basic concepts. Most students got pretty similar scores.

<br />

Generally, I think this course is takable as long as you enjoy (or want to try) making a robot and learning some lower-level system knowledge.

<br />

[More CUHK Course Reviews](/course-review)