---
title: "CSCI3230/ESTR3108 Fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence - CUHK Course Review"
date: 2019-11-24T00:00:00+08:00
thumbnail: ""
static_page: true
draft: false
---

Term Taken: 2019 Fall

Instructor: Prof. Leung Kwong Sak

# Grading Scheme
**Original Scheme:**

* Written Assignments (12%)
* Prolog Programming Assignment (8%)
* Weka Data Mining Lab (5%)
* TensorFlow Neural Network Project (20%)
* Final Exam (55%)

**Scheme for 2019 course cancellation:**

* Written Assignments (21%)
* Prolog Programming Assignment (10.5%)
* TensorFlow Neural Network Project (21%)
* Term Paper (17.5%)
* ESTR Research Project (30%)

# Textbook
Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig.

# Topics Covered
* Searching.
* Game Playing.
* Expert System.
* Learning.
* Neural Networks.

**Additional Materials for ESTR:**

* A PhD mentor for a self-chosen research project.

# Review

Prof. Leung is very knowledgeable and kind, but the organization of the syllabus was a total mess. They tried to fit in too much topics into a single semester, so the professor could only skim through concepts of the materials rather than diving deep into a topic.

<br />

Also, since the professor only talked about the concepts, students had to self-learn TensorFlow and Prolog to complete the assignments. This was extremely overwhelming for students new to AI.

<br />

In conclusion, I did not learn much in this course and I would definitely NOT recommend this course despite the popularity of AI. Advice: Take [CSCI3220 Bioinformatics](/cuhk-course-review/csci3220) and CSCI3320 Machine Learning instead. You would learn more computational statistics methods for AI in these courses.

<br />

[More CUHK Course Reviews](/course-review)